README.md, before:

<img align="right" src="https://github.com/carstenbauer/ThreadPinning.jl/raw/main/docs/src/assets/logo.png" width=200px>

# ThreadPinning.jl

[code-style-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-blue-4495d1.svg
[code-style-url]: https://github.com/invenia/BlueStyle

<!-- [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](https://juliaperf.github.io/LIKWID.jl/stable/) -->
<!-- [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://juliaperf.github.io/LIKWID.jl/dev/) -->
<!-- [![Build Status](https://github.com/JuliaPerf/LIKWID.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JuliaPerf/LIKWID.jl/actions) -->
[![CI@PC2](https://git.uni-paderborn.de/pc2-ci/julia/ThreadPinning-jl/badges/main/pipeline.svg?key_text=CI@PC2)](https://git.uni-paderborn.de/pc2-ci/julia/ThreadPinning-jl/-/pipelines)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/carstenbauer/ThreadPinning.jl/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=Ze61CbGoO5)](https://codecov.io/gh/carstenbauer/ThreadPinning.jl)
![lifecycle](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-stable-black.svg)
[![][code-style-img]][code-style-url]

*Interactively pin Julia threads to specific cores at runtime*

## Why pin Julia threads?

Because
* [it effects performance (MFlops/s), in particular on HPC clusters with multiple NUMA domains](https://github.com/JuliaPerf/BandwidthBenchmark.jl#flopsscaling)
* [it allows you to measure hardware-performance counters in a reliable way](https://juliaperf.github.io/LIKWID.jl/stable/marker/)
* ...

## Installation

**Note: Only Linux is supported!** (macOS doesn't support thread pinning. Windows might or might not work.)

The package is registered. Hence, you can simply use
```
] add ThreadPinning
```
to add the package to your Julia environment.

## Example

The most important functions are [`pinthreads`](#pinthreads) and [`threadinfo`](#threadinfo).

(Dual-socket system with 20 cores per socket, `julia -t 20`)

<img src="https://github.com/carstenbauer/ThreadPinning.jl/raw/main/docs/src/assets/threadinfo.png" width=900px>

### Without color support

```julia
julia> using ThreadPinning, Hwloc # Hwloc is optional

julia> threadinfo(color=false)

| 0,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,11,12,13,_,_,_,_,_,_ |
| 20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,_,30,31,32,33,34,35,_,37,_,_ |

# = Julia thread, | = Package seperator

Julia threads: 20
Occupied cores: 20
Thread-Core mapping:
  1 => 0,  2 => 26,  3 => 28,  4 => 12,  5 => 20,  ...

julia> pinthreads(:compact)

julia> threadinfo(color=false)

| 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19 |
| _,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_ |

# = Julia thread, | = Package seperator

Julia threads: 20
Occupied cores: 20
Thread-Core mapping:
  1 => 0,  2 => 1,  3 => 2,  4 => 3,  5 => 4,  ...

julia> pinthreads(:scatter)

julia> threadinfo(color=false)

| 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_ |
| 20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_ |

# = Julia thread, | = Package seperator

Julia threads: 20
Occupied cores: 20
Thread-Core mapping:
  1 => 0,  2 => 20,  3 => 1,  4 => 21,  5 => 2,  ...
```

## Documentation

#### `pinthreads`

> `pinthreads(strategy::Symbol[; nthreads, warn, kwargs...])`
> 
> Pin the first `1:nthreads` Julia threads according to the given pinning `strategy`.
> Per default, `nthreads == Threads.nthreads()`
> 
> Allowed strategies:
> * `:compact`: pins to the first `0:nthreads-1` cores
> * `:scatter` or `:spread`: pins to all available sockets in an alternating / round robin fashion. To function automatically, Hwloc.jl should be loaded (i.e. `using Hwloc`). Otherwise, we the keyword arguments `nsockets` (default: `2`) and `hyperthreads` (default: `false`) can be used to indicate whether hyperthreads are available on the system (i.e. whether `Sys.CPU_THREADS == 2 * nphysicalcores`).
> * `:random` or `:rand`: pins threads to random cores (ensures that no core is double occupied).
> * `:halfcompact`: pins to the first `0:2:2*nthreads-1` cores

#### `threadinfo`

> Print information about Julia threads, e.g. on which CPU-cores they are running.
> 
> By default, the visualization will be based on `Sys.CPU_THREADS` only.
> If you also load Hwloc.jl (via `using Hwloc`) it will show more detailed information.
> 
> Keyword arguments:
> * `color` (default: `true`): Toggle between colored and black-and-white output.
> * `blocksize` (default: `32`): Wrap to a new line after `blocksize` many cores.
> * `ht`: If true, we highlight virtual cores associated with hyperthreads in the `color=true` output. By default, we try to automatically figure out whether hypterthreading is enabled.
> * `blas` (default: `false`): Show information about BLAS threads as well.
> * `hints` (default: `false`): Give some hints about how to improve the threading related settings.

#### `getcpuids` / `getcpuid`

> Returns the IDs of the CPUs on which the Julia threads
> are currently running.

## Explanation

We use libc's [sched_getcpu](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/sched_getcpu.3.html) to query the CPU-core ID for a thread and libuv's [uv_thread_setaffinity](https://github.com/clibs/uv/blob/master/docs/src/threading.rst) to set the affinity of a thread.


## Noteworthy Alternatives

* Setting `JULIA_EXCLUSIVE=1` will make julia use compact pinning automatically (no external tool needed!)
* [`pinthread` / `pinthreads`](https://juliaperf.github.io/LIKWID.jl/dev/examples/dynamic_pinning/) or `likwid-pin` (CLI tool) from [LIKWID.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPerf/LIKWID.jl)
* [This discourse thread](https://discourse.julialang.org/t/thread-affinitization-pinning-julia-threads-to-cores/58069/5) discusses issues with alternatives like `numactl`

## Acknowledgements

* CI infrastructure is provided by the [Paderborn Center for Parallel Computing (PC²)](https://pc2.uni-paderborn.de/)

Commit message:

getcpuid, pinthread for given thread; tspawnat sticky true

README.md, after:

<img align="right" src="https://github.com/carstenbauer/ThreadPinning.jl/raw/main/docs/src/assets/logo.png" width=200px>

# ThreadPinning.jl

[code-style-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-blue-4495d1.svg
[code-style-url]: https://github.com/invenia/BlueStyle

<!-- [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](https://juliaperf.github.io/LIKWID.jl/stable/) -->
<!-- [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://juliaperf.github.io/LIKWID.jl/dev/) -->
<!-- [![Build Status](https://github.com/JuliaPerf/LIKWID.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JuliaPerf/LIKWID.jl/actions) -->
[![CI@PC2](https://git.uni-paderborn.de/pc2-ci/julia/ThreadPinning-jl/badges/main/pipeline.svg?key_text=CI@PC2)](https://git.uni-paderborn.de/pc2-ci/julia/ThreadPinning-jl/-/pipelines)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/carstenbauer/ThreadPinning.jl/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=Ze61CbGoO5)](https://codecov.io/gh/carstenbauer/ThreadPinning.jl)
![lifecycle](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-stable-black.svg)
[![][code-style-img]][code-style-url]

*Interactively pin Julia threads to specific cores at runtime*

## Why pin Julia threads?

Because
* [it effects performance (MFlops/s), in particular on HPC clusters with multiple NUMA domains](https://github.com/JuliaPerf/BandwidthBenchmark.jl#flopsscaling)
* [it allows you to measure hardware-performance counters in a reliable way](https://juliaperf.github.io/LIKWID.jl/stable/marker/)
* ...

## Installation

**Note: Only Linux is supported!** (macOS doesn't support thread pinning. Windows might or might not work.)

The package is registered. Hence, you can simply use
```
] add ThreadPinning
```
to add the package to your Julia environment.

## Example

The most important functions are [`pinthreads`](#pinthreads) and [`threadinfo`](#threadinfo).

(Dual-socket system with 20 cores per socket, `julia -t 20`)

<img src="https://github.com/carstenbauer/ThreadPinning.jl/raw/main/docs/src/assets/threadinfo.png" width=900px>

### Without color support

```julia
julia> using ThreadPinning, Hwloc # Hwloc is optional

julia> threadinfo(color=false)

| 0,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,11,12,13,_,_,_,_,_,_ |
| 20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,_,30,31,32,33,34,35,_,37,_,_ |

# = Julia thread, | = Package seperator

Julia threads: 20
Occupied cores: 20
Thread-Core mapping:
  1 => 0,  2 => 26,  3 => 28,  4 => 12,  5 => 20,  ...

julia> pinthreads(:compact)

julia> threadinfo(color=false)

| 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19 |
| _,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_ |

# = Julia thread, | = Package seperator

Julia threads: 20
Occupied cores: 20
Thread-Core mapping:
  1 => 0,  2 => 1,  3 => 2,  4 => 3,  5 => 4,  ...

julia> pinthreads(:scatter)

julia> threadinfo(color=false)

| 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_ |
| 20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_,_ |

# = Julia thread, | = Package seperator

Julia threads: 20
Occupied cores: 20
Thread-Core mapping:
  1 => 0,  2 => 20,  3 => 1,  4 => 21,  5 => 2,  ...
```

## Documentation

#### `pinthreads`

> `pinthreads(strategy::Symbol[; nthreads, warn, kwargs...])`
> 
> Pin the first `1:nthreads` Julia threads according to the given pinning `strategy`.
> Per default, `nthreads == Threads.nthreads()`
> 
> Allowed strategies:
> * `:compact`: pins to the first `0:nthreads-1` cores
> * `:scatter` or `:spread`: pins to all available sockets in an alternating / round robin fashion. To function automatically, Hwloc.jl should be loaded (i.e. `using Hwloc`). Otherwise, we the keyword arguments `nsockets` (default: `2`) and `hyperthreads` (default: `false`) can be used to indicate whether hyperthreads are available on the system (i.e. whether `Sys.CPU_THREADS == 2 * nphysicalcores`).
> * `:random` or `:rand`: pins threads to random cores (ensures that no core is double occupied).
> * `:halfcompact`: pins to the first `0:2:2*nthreads-1` cores

#### `pinthread`

>     pinthread(cpuid::Integer; warn::Bool = true)
> 
> Pin the calling Julia thread to the CPU with id `cpuid`.
> 
>     pinthread(threadid::Integer, cpuid::Integer; kwargs...)
>   
> Pin the given Julia thread (`threadid`) to the CPU with ID `cpuid`.

#### `threadinfo`

> Print information about Julia threads, e.g. on which CPU-cores they are running.
> 
> By default, the visualization will be based on `Sys.CPU_THREADS` only.
> If you also load Hwloc.jl (via `using Hwloc`) it will show more detailed information.
> 
> Keyword arguments:
> * `color` (default: `true`): Toggle between colored and black-and-white output.
> * `blocksize` (default: `32`): Wrap to a new line after `blocksize` many cores.
> * `ht`: If true, we highlight virtual cores associated with hyperthreads in the `color=true` output. By default, we try to automatically figure out whether hypterthreading is enabled.
> * `blas` (default: `false`): Show information about BLAS threads as well.
> * `hints` (default: `false`): Give some hints about how to improve the threading related settings.

#### `getcpuids`

> Returns the ID of the CPUs on which the Julia threads are currently running.

#### `getcpuid`

>     getcpuid()
> 
> Returns the ID of the CPU on which the calling thread is currently executing.
> 
>     getcpuid(threadid:Integer)
> 
> Returns the ID of the CPU on which the given Julia thread (`threadid`) is currently executing.

## Explanation

We use libc's [sched_getcpu](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/sched_getcpu.3.html) to query the CPU-core ID for a thread and libuv's [uv_thread_setaffinity](https://github.com/clibs/uv/blob/master/docs/src/threading.rst) to set the affinity of a thread.


## Noteworthy Alternatives

* Setting `JULIA_EXCLUSIVE=1` will make julia use compact pinning automatically (no external tool needed!)
* [`pinthread` / `pinthreads`](https://juliaperf.github.io/LIKWID.jl/dev/examples/dynamic_pinning/) or `likwid-pin` (CLI tool) from [LIKWID.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPerf/LIKWID.jl)
* [This discourse thread](https://discourse.julialang.org/t/thread-affinitization-pinning-julia-threads-to-cores/58069/5) discusses issues with alternatives like `numactl`

## Acknowledgements

* CI infrastructure is provided by the [Paderborn Center for Parallel Computing (PC²)](https://pc2.uni-paderborn.de/)
